IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1
SG-GAN for Electric Vehicle Road Networks and
Q-Learning in Energy Efficient Routing
Suborno Kumar Das, Santi Prasad Maity
 , and Chinmay Chakraborty
 , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— This paper suggests a novel routing scheme for
multiple electric vehicles (EVs) on a mesh-type road network,
which is generated using a Spatial Graph-Generative Adversarial
Network (SG-GAN). The scheme focuses on optimizing both the
routing of EVs and their association with the respective charging
stations(CSs) to reduce energy consumption. The challenge lies
in effectively managing factors such as travel cost, the state of
charge (SoC) of the battery, and congestion in the road network.
To address this problem, we propose a Reinforcement Learning
(RL) based approach that minimizes energy consumption and
the overall travel time for EVs to reach their destinations. A Q-
learning algorithm for RL is employed to solve the nonlinear
constrained optimization problems. Through simulation exper-
iments on a road network evolved through SG-GAN, which
generates realistic and complex network topologies, we address
the allocation of CSs and EVs optimal routing. The results
demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach compared to
the existing methods, achieving a 2.68% reduction in energy
consumption along with a similarity measure, on an average
Kullback–Leibler (KL) distance (divergence) 0.54 in the SG-GAN
generated road network from the reference real one.
Index Terms— Spatial graph-GAN, Kullback-Leibler diver-
gence, electric vehicle routing, charging station allocation,
Q-learning, energy consumption, bipartite graph.
I. I NTRODUCTION
T
HE transition
to electric vehicles (EVs) marks a promis-
ing and sustainable revolution in transportation. Unlike
fossil fuel-dependent vehicles, EVs utilize highcapacity bat-
teries and can be charged from renewable sources such as
solar or wind, reducing pollutants and greenhouse gases.
This shift is driven by environmental concerns, advancements
in lithium-ion battery technology resulting in higher energy
densities, longer ranges, and faster charging times [1] and
supportive government policies alongside evolving consumer
preferences. EVs are central to smart city development, yet
challenges such as designing lightweight batteries, efficient
power electronics, and optimized motor systems persist, all of
which influence energy efficient (EE) routing. EE routing algo-
rithms also depend on the availability and strategic placement
Received 22 January 2025; revised 12 April 2025 and 29 May 2025;
accepted 17 June 2025. The Associate Editor for this article was R. Jhaveri.
(Corresponding author: Chinmay Chakraborty.)
Suborno Kumar Das and Santi Prasad Maity are with the Information
Technology Department, Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technol-
ogy at Shibpur, Howrah 711103, India (e-mail: dassuborno.clrs@gmail.com;
santipmaity@it.iiests.ac.in).
Chinmay Chakraborty is with the School of Electronics Engineering,
Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), Bhubaneswar 751024, India
(e-mail: chinmay.chakrabortyfet@kiit.ac.in).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TITS.2025.3585310
of Charging Stations (CS). Reducing energy consumption in
EVs extends driving range, minimizes charging frequency,
lowers overall ownership costs, and decreases environmental
impact. This work addresses the EV routing problem by
focusing on generating road networks for multiple EVs trav-
eling from arbitrary source points to fixed destinations while
accessing CS along the way.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section II
presents a literature review. Section III presents a Spatial
Graph-Generative Adversarial Network (SG-GAN) based road
network Generation with embedded CS, and Section IV
presents energy consumption, travel time, and congestion fac-
tor calculations. EE-EV Routing and CS allocation discussion
are made in Section V. Results and discussion are made in
Section VI. Finally conclusion and future work are presented
in Section VII.
II. L ITERATURE REVIEW ON RELATED WORKS
Literature review on intelligent transportation and EV
infrastructure presents a diverse set of methodologies and
algorithms addressing road network generation, EV charging
optimization, routing decisions, and EV to CS allocation.
For instance, [2] highlights that the increasing number of
vehicles intensifies traffic congestion, air pollution, and energy
consumption. Recent advances [3] address issues in spatial
and topological modeling by combining transformer-based
GANs with spatial and topological supervision, along with
differentiable image-to-graph extractors, thereby improving
metrics such as traffic convenience. Addressing missing data
in real-time EV Charging Monitoring (EVCM) systems, [4]
introduced the CurriFusFormer framework, that shows result
of missing data rates from 30% to 90%, achieving R2 scores
between 0.83 and 0.92. In parallel, optimal charging strate-
gies for Distribution System Operators have been developed
using Markov Decision Processes (MDP) and Reinforcement
Learning (RL) [5]. An RL approach has also been applied
to the dynamic EV routing problem to minimize energy
consumption and prevent battery depletion [6]. Other contri-
butions include Actor-Critic-based smart charging algorithms
to mitigate EV charging impacts on power grids [7] and Deep
Reinforcement Learning (DRL) approaches for the optimal
route and CS selection under dynamic traffic conditions and
uncertain future requests [8]. DRL-based approaches have
minimized total travel time and charging costs [9], while
multi-agent RL has been used for optimal energy scheduling
1558-0016 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
at CSs, enhancing economic profits and user satisfaction [10].
Complementary strategies include an RL-based EV assignment
scheme (RLEV AS) designed to reduce charging costs and grid
overload [11], and DRL methodologies for an optimal CS
placement in urban areas that maximizes charging plan bene-
fits [12]. Additionally, DRL has been employed for dynamic
energy scheduling and routing of multiple EVs to lower energy
costs [13], with multi-agent DRL approaches extending to EV
charging scheduling in smart grids [14]. The green vehicle
routing problem has been examined in [15], while efficient
EV route planning using the Bellman-Ford algorithm on an
embedded GPU is presented in [16]. Hierarchical and hybrid
multi-agent RL approaches have been proposed to optimize
EV flexibility services [17], and a bilevel graph RL method
was developed for effective EV fleet charging guidance [18].
An end-to-end RL-based routing method for electric logistics
vehicles further demonstrates reduced energy consumption
in [19]. Recent research extends to motion planning for EVs
using RL to optimize both battery consumption and travel time
efficiency [20].
A. Scope and Contributions of the Work
EV routing in smart cities faces challenges due to newly
emerging dynamic road networks, fluctuating traffic condi-
tions, and limited battery capacities [21], [22]. Motivated
by [3], [6], [7], and [9], the present work integrate SG-GAN,
Q-learning, and a bipartite graph method with contributions as
follows:
• We employ SG-GAN to generate a Generative AI-based
dynamic and realistic road network, enabling EVs to
navigate unknown and evolving road networks efficiently.
With a KL Distance (Divergence) value of 0.54 [23], the
generated network resembles closer to the reference real
road network.
• We develop a Q-learning algorithm, an RL-based method
that optimizes travel time and energy consumption by
dynamically learning from real-time traffic conditions
using a priority-based optimization framework. This
approach reduces energy consumption by 2.68% com-
pared to the method in [22].
• The present work also ensures seamless CS allocation
using the concept of bipartite graph mapping, reducing
range anxiety and improving EV mobility in smart cities.
III. SG-GAN B ASED ROAD NETWORK GENERATION
WITH EMBEDDED CS
We propose an SG-GAN [2]-based architecture to synthe-
size realistic road networks from OpenStreetMap (OSM) data,
where road layouts, intersections, road types, and connectivity
are encoded as a graph.
Gr (Ve, Ed ), Ve = {v1, v2, . . . , vn}, Ed = {ei j},
where edges are weighted by attributes such as distance, travel
time, and congestion. Representation includes an adjacency
matrix, an edge weight matrix, and a connectivity probability
distribution.
Fig. 1. Proposed SG-GAN architecture.
A. Model Structure, Training and Connectivity Modeling
The SG-GAN framework consists of a generator G and a
discriminator D that engage in adversarial training. The gener-
ator approximates the true conditional connectivity distribution
ptrue(v | vc) for a given vertex vc, while the discriminator
distinguishes real samples from those synthesized by G. Their
training objective follows the minimax formulation [2]:
min
θG
max
θD
L(G, D) =
∑
c
Ev∼ptrue(·|vc)
[
log D(v, vc; θD)
]
+ Ev∼G(·|vc;θG )
[
log
(
1 − D(v, vc; θD)
)]
.
(1)
Weights in both G and D are initialized using Xavier (Glorot)
initialization as
U ∼ X
(
− 6
pin + pout
, 6
pin + pout
)
, bias = 0.
Pre-training involves training G on a reconstruction task to
learn an initial embedding of road network features and
training D on a binary classification task (real vs. generated
graph samples). This warm-up (upto 10 epochs) precedes
full adversarial training. Optimization employs the Adam
optimizer with α = 0.0002 (starting at α = 0.0001 for the
first 50 iterations), σ1 = 0.5, σ2 = 0.999, along with gradient
clipping (max norm 5.0) and batch normalization. To capture
connectivity, a graph softmax function [2] is introduced:
G(v | vc) =
m∏
j=1
pc(vr j | vr j−1) · pc(vrm−1 | vrm ),
where each vertex νn has neighbors M(νn) sampled from
the conditional distribution ˜T (ν | νn). The SG-GAN frame
work dynamically adapts road networks based on real-time
conditions such as traffic fluctuations, roadwork, or obstacles.
This makes it a powerful tool for adaptive urban planning and
smart city development. Our proposed SG-GAN architecture
is shown in Fig.1 and the SG-GAN-based road network
generation algorithm is shown in Algorithm 1.
B. KLD-Based Assessment of Generated Networks
To quantitatively compare the generated and real road net-
works, we employ the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence [23].
For each edge (u, v), we compute the distance-to-time ratio
Ruv as:
Ruv = distanceuv
timeuv
. (2)
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
DAS et al.: SG-GAN FOR EV ROAD NETWORKS AND Q-LEARNING IN ENERGY EFFICIENT ROUTING 3
The ratio is normalized to [0, 1] via min-max normalization
as r ′
uv:
R′
uv = Ruv − min(R)
max(R) − min(R) . (3)
Algorithm 1 SG-GAN for Road Network Generation
Require: Dimension of embedding k, size of generated sam-
ples s, size of discriminated samples t
Ensure: Generator G(v|vc; θG), Discriminator D(v, vc; θD)
1: Initialize and pre-train G(v|vc; θG) and D(v, vc; θD)
2: Construct Breadth-First Search (BFS) tree Tc for all vc ∈
V
3: while SG-GAN has not converged do
4: for each G-step do
5: G(v|vc; θG) generates s vertices for each vertex vc
6: Update θG by minimizing the generator loss
7: end for
8: for each D-step do
9: Sample t positive vertices from the ground truth
road network
10: Sample t negative vertices from G(v|vc; θG) for
each vertex vc
11: Update θD by minimizing the discriminator loss
12: end for
13: end whilereturn G(v|vc; θG) and D(v, vc; θD)
Let N be the number of intervals used for partitioning the
normalized values. The total count of samples M is defined
as
M =
N∑
j=1
n j , (4)
where n j represents the number of occurrences in the j-th
interval. Probability of the j-th interval is defined as
p j = n j
M . (5)
The KL divergence is then given by
DK L(p ∥ q) =
N∑
j=1
P( j) log p( j)
q( j) .
where p is the probability distribution of a feature in a real
road network and q is the probability distribution of a feature
in a SG-GAN-generated road network.
IV. C ALCULATION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION , TRAVEL
TIME AND CONGESTION FACTOR
In the present routing problem, energy consumption ( Ec) is
defined in the Eq.6 for the ith EV [24].
Eci = 1
η
(1
2 ρCd Av2 + Cr mgv + mgd sin θ
)
(6)
where
• η = Mechanical to electrical energy conversion efficiency
• ρ = Air density (in kg/m 3)
• Cd = Drag coefficient (aerodynamic resistance factor)
• A = Frontal area of the vehicle (in m 2)
• V = Velocity of the vehicle (in m/s)
• Cr = Rolling resistance coefficient.
• m = Mass of the vehicle (in kg)
• g = Acceleration due to gravity (approximately
9.81 m/s 2)
• d = Distance
• θ = Angle of incline (sin(θ ) accounts surface slope)
Travel time ( Tc) defined in the Eq.7 for the ith EV as
Tc = L
λ + d
V + Tcharge (7)
where queueing delay ( W ) given by Little’s Law [25]:
W = L
λ (8)
and charging time at each CS ( T s
charge) given by:
T s
charge = Bmax − Bcurrent
ηs
∀ s ∈ CS
• T s
charge is the charging time at CS(in hours),
• Bmax is the maximum SOC of the EV (in kWh),
• Bcurrent is the current SOC upon arrival at the station (in
kWh),
• ηs is the charging rate at station s (in kW)
Congestion factor for a road segment (i, j) is computed as
δi j = qi j
Ci j
, (9)
where qi j denotes the traffic flow (i.e., the number of vehi-
cles per unit time on road segment (i, j)) is modeled as a
Poisson-distributed random variable between 0 to Ci j where
Ci j represents the maximum number of vehicles that the
segment can accommodate per unit time. This ratio is normal-
ized between 0%(minimal traffic flow) and 100% (complete
congestion). Our framework measures local congestion, δi j,
which reflects the congestion level on an individual road
segment. This local metric supports fine-tuned, immediate
routing decisions to avoid short-term bottlenecks. Conse-
quently, a higher δi j value on a given segment prompts EV
agents to dynamically adjust their routes, thereby enabling
an adaptive response to both overall and localized traffic
disturbances. Global congestion δ calculated using the Eq.10
where wi j represents the weight on the road segment, assumed
uniform.
δ =
∑
(i, j) wi j δi j
∑
(i, j) wi j
(10)
Global congestion aggregates the congestion factors of all road
segments across the network to provide an overall assessment
of traffic density based on the positions and trajectories of all
EV agents.
A. Defining the Objective Function
We consider the overall objective function O for n no.
of EVs, formulated as a weighted sum of energy consumption
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
and journey completion time. The objective function is given
in the Eq.11.
O = min
n∑
i=1
(
β Eci
Enorm
+ (1 − β) Tci
Tnorm
)
(11)
where β ∈ [0, 1] is a dimensionless weighting factor that con-
trols the trade-off between the two β = 1, energy minimization
and β = 0 travel time minimization). Normalization factors
Enorm and Tnorm, typically set to their maximum expected
values, ensure that
0 ≤ Eci
Enorm
, Tci
Tnorm
≤ 1,
thereby scaling both terms comparably. The optimization is
subject to the following constraints:
N∑
i=1
ys j ≤ C j ∀ CS j ,
where ys j ∈ {0, 1} indicates whether ith EV is charged at CS j,
and C j represents the available charger count at station CS j.
When this count reaches the capacity C j, additional EVs incur
a queuing delay Wi.
V. E NERGY EFFICIENT EV R OUTING AND CS
ALLOCATION
We propose a decentralized multi-agent Q-learning frame-
work for routing EVs in a dynamic road network. Each EV
operates as an independent agent, making routing and charging
decisions based on its local observations solely while con-
tributing to a global context by updating real-time congestion
and CS mappings.
A. Algorithmic Implementation
1) Initialization: Each EV agent initializes its Q-table from
arbitrary starting locations with zeros, selects an initial battery
SOC from a continuous uniform distribution, and is assigned
a fixed destination. A global set S records all visited nodes
along the optimal paths, while a bipartite mapping Bi p dynam-
ically associates high-traffic zones with nearby CSs. A global
congestion parameter δ captures the evolving density of EVs
across the network.
2) State, Action, and Reward: Let the state s be the EV’s
current position in the network and the action a is movement
to a neighboring node or accessing a CS. The reward for the
i th EV is defined as:
Reward i = Rbase −
[
β Eci
Enorm
+ (1 − β) Tci
Tnorm
]
Kobj
− δi j
δnorm i j
Kcongestion + Idest Kbonus, (12)
where
• Rbase: Base reward.
• Kobj: Scaling factor for the weighted cost.
• Kcongestion: Scaling factor for the congestion penalty.
• Idest: Indicator (1 if destination is reached, 0 otherwise).
• Kbonus: Bonus awarded upon reaching the destination.
• δnorm : Maximum expected congestion for EV .
Algorithm 2 Q-Learning for EV Routing and CS Allocation
Input: SG-GAN generated Weighted Graph G(V, E) from
Algorithm 1, α, γ , ϵ, θ
Output: Set of optimal routes, cumulative energy
consumption, total travel time
1: Initialization:
2: for each EV agent i ∈ {1, . . . ,l} do
3: Initialize Q-table: Qi (s, a) ← 0 for s and a
4: Set initial energy, SOC, and destination for agent i
5: end for
6: Initialize bipartite mapping Bi p ← ∅
7: Initialize global visited node set S ← ∅
8: Initialize global congestion δ w.r.t EV densities over G
9: for all EV agents i in parallel do
10: while agent i has not reached its destination do
11: From current state s, select action a using an
ϵ-greedy policy with Qi (s, a), considering current con-
gestion from δ
12: Execute action a; observe new state s′, energy
consumption Eci , travel time Tci , local congestion factor
δi j (from δ), and update battery SOC
13: Compute reward function
Reward i = Rbase −
[
β Eci
Enorm
+ (1 − β) Tci
Tnorm
]
Kobj
− δi j
δnorm i j
Kcongestion + Idest Kbonus
14:
Qi (s, a) ← Qi (s, a)+α
[
Ri +γ max
a′
Qi (s′, a′)−Qi (s, a)
]
15: Add the newly visited node s′ to S
16: Extract S′ from S, a subset of high-traffic nodes
17: For each node v ∈ S′, dynamically map v to the
nearest available CS using bipartite matching; update B
18: if s′ and EV battery SOC < Thoffers multiple
feasible CS options {C Sj } then
19: for each available CS C Sj do
20: Compute combined metric:
C Sj = β · 1E j
Enorm
+ (1 − β) · W j
Wnorm
21: end for
22: Select C S∗ ← arg minj {C j }
23: Update mapping B ← B ∪ {(s ′, C S∗)}
24: end if
25: Update δ global congestion.
26: Set current state s ← s′
27: end while
28: end for
29: return {Optimal Routes, Cumulative Energy Consump-
tion, Total Travel Time}
3) Learning Process and Q-Value Update: At each epoch,
an EV agent observes its state s and selects an action a using
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
DAS et al.: SG-GAN FOR EV ROAD NETWORKS AND Q-LEARNING IN ENERGY EFFICIENT ROUTING 5
an ϵ-greedy policy, which balances exploitation of learned
Q-values and exploration of new routes while incorporating
local congestion measures δi (derived from the global δ). After
executing a, the agent transitions to a new state s′, updating
its battery SOC and collecting data on energy consumption
Eci , travel time Tci , and local congestion δi. The Q-values are
updated according to:
Qi (s, a) ← Qi (s, a)+α
[
Ri +γ max
a′
Qi (s′, a′)− Qi (s, a)
]
,
(13)
where α is the learning rate and γ is the discount factor. The
optimal Q-value function and policy are defined as:
Q∗(s, a) = max
π
Qπ (s, a), π∗(s) = arg max
a
Q∗(s, a). (14)
Using ϵ-greedy policy [26], the EV selects the greedy action:
a = arg max
a∈A
Qt (a), (15)
The action selection probability is given by:
πt (a) =



1 − ϵ + ϵ
|A| , if Qt (a) = max
b∈A
Qt (b),
ϵ
|A| , otherwise.
(16)
4) Charging Station Allocation via Bipartite Graph: A
bipartite graph is employed to optimize CS allocation. Two
disjoint sets are defined: S′, representing high-frequency inter-
sections, and C S, consisting of CS locations generated by
SG-GAN. Edge weights between S′ and C S are computed
as:
C Sj = β · 1E j
1Enorm
+ (1 − β) · W j
Wnorm
, (17)
where 1E j is the additional energy required to reach station
j, W j is the expected queuing delay, and 1Enorm and Wnorm
are normalization factors ensuring unitless metrics. When an
EV at state s′ has multiple CS options and its battery SOC is
below a threshold θ, the assignment is determined using the
Hungarian algorithm [27]. Our proposed RL-based method for
optimal routing and CS placement is shown in Algorithm 2.
VI. R ESULTS AND DISCUSSION
In our experiment, a mesh-like topology for road networks is
generated by SG-GAN with the number of junctions nodes 29,
and 7 CS nodes and 50 EVs. Simulations were implemented
in Jupyter environment using Python, and the simulations
were executed on a personal computer featuring an Apple M1
Silicon Chip and 8 GB of RAM. Numerical values for the
parameters are shown in Table I and hyperparameters to run
the proposed scheme are shown in Table II.
By modifying the distance and time parameters, two road
networks using SG-GAN are shown in Fig.2(a) and (b),
a wider and denser network, respectively. Each EV is initial-
ized in the road network with a uniform 10 kWh battery and
an initial state-of-charge (SOC) uniformly distributed between
30% and 100%, averaging 65% with a standard deviation of
20.2%. The algorithm computes optimal routes and reroutes
EVs to the nearest CS when their SOC falls to a critical
TABLE I
PARAMETERS RELATED TO ENERGY CALCULATION
TABLE II
HYPERPARAMETERS OF THE PROPOSED STRATEGY
Fig. 2. Two SG-GAN generated road networks with 22 junction nodes
(blue color) and 7 CS (green color), Inclined path (yellow color) by changing
parameters distance and time; (a) Wider network and (b) Dense network.
threshold, ensuring a fixed energy buffer of 2.5 kWh in our
experiment to prevent depletion. For a 10 kWh battery, this
corresponds to a 25% SOC threshold. To maintain the same
safety margin across varying battery sizes, the threshold is
adjusted proportionally as 16.7% for 15 kWh, 12.5% for
20 kWh, and 8.3% for 30 kWh. This prevents early rerouting
while ensuring consistent energy reserves before charging.
For the road network shown in Fig.2(a), Table III shows the
different optimal paths with CS allocation for 5 EVs without
using bipartite graph mapping. These paths are evaluated at
different congestion levels (25%, 50%, and 100%), where
100% represents the maximum number of EVs in the network,
following a Poisson distribution with a mean arrival rate
of 5 EVs. In our observation increase on energy consumption
and travel times is found to be higher due to longer paths
because there is no optimal mapping of EV to CS (EV
randomly mapping to CS). When the bipartite graph is used,
under 25% congestion, energy consumptions (kWh) for the
EVs are found to be 4.66, 1.25, 4.46, 0.86, and 4.63, respec-
tively. At 50% congestion, these values increase to 5.34, 1.33,
5.13, 0.93, and 5.31 kWh. At 100% congestion, the values
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
Fig. 3. Learning Curves (a) Accuracy for the Generator and Discriminator,
(b) Cumulative Reward gained graph for 5 EVs.
rise to 6.12, 1.42, 5.81, 0.99, and 6.10 kWh, respectively
shown in Table IV. The average energy consumption without
bipartite mapping is found 18.41 kWh/100 km, compared to
15.64 kWh/100 km with bipartite graph mapping, showing
a 15.05% savings in energy consumption. For the road net-
work shown in Fig.2(b), we analyze the resulting changes in
energy consumption and travel time for 5 EVs using bipartite
mapping, which are presented in Table V. On average 37.6%
more energy consumption and 2.26% more travel time needed
at 50% congestion for road network in Fig. 2(b) compared to
the road network in Fig.2(a) for EVs to reach their destination
using the optimal paths beacuse road network in Fig.2(b)
has a denser structure, As a result, frequent junctions and
routing through many short segments and tight turns force
repeated deceleration and re-acceleration. Each cycle incurs
additional mechanical work and energy losses compared to
steady cruising. Moreover, the dense network leads to higher
local congestion, resulting in queues and idling delays, further
increasing travel time.
Now the training progression of SG-GAN is depicted in
Fig.3(a). During the initial 50 iterations, generator accuracy
fluctuates between 45% and 65%, while discriminator accu-
racy ranges from 40% to 75% showing significant instability.
By iteration 100, the generator reaches 82% (Â±3%) and the
discriminator stabilizes at 85%. At iteration 150, the generator
achieves 89% (Â±2%) and the discriminator 90%. Upon
convergence at iteration 200, the generator stabilizes at 91%
(Â±1%) and the discriminator at 93%, with a narrow 2%
performance gap. Notably, after the 50th epoch, the generator
improves at an average rate of 0.23% per iteration compared
to the discriminator 0.18%, confirming robust convergence
with exceeding 90% accuracy. Similarly Fig.3(b) shows the
cumulative reward gained graph for 5 EVs, where reward
increases steadily with the number of iterations, and stabi-
lizes after 2000 iterations. Although the reward gained graph
looks similar, the cumulative reward values are different. For
example, the reward values of EV5, EV4, and EV2 (Group II)
are much higher than EV1 and EV3 (Group I), possibly the
better optimal possible paths availed by Group I than Group
II, and due to the non-use of CS.
Fig.4(a), shows a three-dimensional (3D) plot indicating the
congestion factor, mean completion time, and mean energy
consumption values, with each point corresponding to three
parameters, A (100, 16.66, 404.57), B ((50, 15.64, 333.33), C
((25, 13.83, 280.95). It is evident that an increase in congestion
Fig. 4. (a) 3D plot of Congestion, Mean energy and Travel time, (b) Sensi-
tivity analysis on β value.
Fig. 5. For the different Network size (a) No.of EV vs Energy consumption
(b) No.of EV vs Travel time.
leads to higher energy consumption and takes more time
to complete its journey. Point B seems to be a preferable
operating point that balances among three factors over the
points A and C.
Fig.4(b) presents a sensitivity analysis of the weighting
factor β. A low value (β = 0.1) prioritizes shorter travel times,
while a high value (β = 0.9) emphasizes energy savings.
Around β = 0.67, the two objectives are balanced, but since
our focus is on energy efficiency, we select β = 0.8 to favor
reduced energy consumption. We see in the plot that travel
time is highly sensitive to β, so that small adjustments can
changes in routing or speed, producing a significant time
variability. In contrast, energy consumption responds more
gradually, as efficiency gains follow smoother physical laws
(moderate acceleration, steady speeds) and operate within
the battery’s fixed capacity. Thus, energy optimization yields
smooth transitions, whereas travel time can fluctuate sharply
due to traffic dynamics and route changes.
Fig.5(a) and Fig.5(b) show that as the number of EVs on the
road increases, both energy consumption and travel time rise
due to high congestion, longer queuing delays at CS, and the
need for EVs to take alternative routes. However, larger road
networks with a larger number of nodes and CS experience
comparatively less congestion. These expansive networks can
better accommodate the growing demand, resulting in lower
energy consumption and reduced travel time.
Table VII compares EV routing methods under comparable
urban, battery-aware simulation conditions. Clustering histori-
cal driving data [28] achieves an average energy consumption
of 19.56 kWh/100 km, but cannot adapt to new traffic patterns.
A* path search algorithm [29] and Dijkstra algorithm [30]
achieve an average energy consumption of 18.6 kWh/100
km by solving a static energy-cost graph in a single pass,
yet they lack real-time adaptability to congestion or charging
constraints. An Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP)
[31] formulation also achieves average energy consumption
of 18.6 kWh/100 km, but at the expense of a solver runtime
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
DAS et al.: SG-GAN FOR EV ROAD NETWORKS AND Q-LEARNING IN ENERGY EFFICIENT ROUTING 7
TABLE III
OPTIMAL PATHS AT VARIOUS CONGESTION WITHOUT USING BIPARTITE GRAPH IN FIG.2(A)
TABLE IV
OPTIMAL PATHS AT VARIOUS CONGESTION USING BIPARTITE GRAPH IN FIG.2( A)
TABLE V
OPTIMAL PATHS AT VARIOUS CONGESTION USING BIPARTITE GRAPH IN FIG.2( B)
TABLE VI
COMPARISON OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITH RESPECT TO CONGESTION FACTOR (PROPOSED VS WORK [22] )
TABLE VII
COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT EV R OUTING METHODS
of approximately ten minutes for moderate network sizes,
limiting its scalability. While flexible in balancing multiple
objectives, the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) [32] based
heuristic approach consumes 21.6 kWh/100 km of energy and
requires about 30 minutes for 100 iterations, often converging
to suboptimal solutions when parameters are not finely tuned.
Traditional RL method SARSA [33] reaches 36.8 kWh/100
km and requires roughly two hours (500 epochs) to converge,
illustrating high sample complexity and large state-space
challenges. A DRL model [28] reduces energy consumption to
15.7 kWh/100 km but demands around five hours of training
(6,000 epochs) and careful hyperparameter tuning to ensure
stability. Our proposed Q-learning approach improves it to
15.64 kWh/100 km, converging in approximately 3.5 hours
(10,000 epochs). This represents a marginal but meaningful
0.36% reduction compared to DRL, achieved with fewer
trainable parameters and lower computation overhead. Our
Q-learning approach strikes an optimal balance, delivering
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
8 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
the lowest energy consumption of all listed methods with a
reasonable training time and limited complexity.
Table VIII presents KL divergence values, measuring the
difference between SG-GAN-generated and real-world maps
of road networks. Higher values indicate more distance, while
lower values indicate closer similarity. For 29 nodes, Graph
1 shows the highest KL divergence (0.9824). In the 32-node
case, divergence values are moderate. For 34 nodes, Graph
3 has the smallest distance (0.1231), closely similar to real
data. In the present work, both model training and testing
were done on the same road network extracted from OSM.
Crucially, SG-GAN does not simply replicate this reference
road network; rather, it learns the underlying connectivity
patterns and synthesizes entirely new road networks. We then
employ KLD to compare the edge-feature distributions of
these SG-GAN-generated road networks against the real one
to provide a rigorous test of whether SG-GAN has truly
generalized the real road network’s structural statistics rather
than overfitting to specific routes. KLD value decreases during
training, confirming that the generated layouts progressively
converge to the real distribution. We adopt KLD to evalu-
ate the similarity between the generated ones and the real
road networks due to its sensitivity to global distributional
discrepancies. Unlike Jensen–Shannon Divergence (JSD) [34],
which is symmetric and bounded, and Graphlet/Motif Diver-
gence [35] that captures only local subgraph mismatches,
KLD asymmetrically penalizes distributional gaps, particularly
when rare but important behaviors are underrepresented in
the generated graphs. This makes it well-suited for evalu-
ating edge-level distance-to-time ratio distributions in road
networks. In Table IX, for a 29-node graph, KLD drops signifi-
cantly from 0.9824 at 200 iterations to 0.6559 at 400 iterations,
a 33.2% improvement. In contrast, JSD improves moderately
from 0.5123 to 0.4685 (8.5%), and Graphlet Divergence
from 0.2134 to 0.2082 (2.4%). This performance illustrates
KLD’s superior sensitivity to global improvements during
training.
Table X shows a comparison where SG-GAN outperforms
Graphormer on all four key metrics. In the case of KLD
Score, SG-GAN achieves a 2.16 times lower value (0.67 vs.
1.45), indicating that its generated road networks more closely
resemble real-world structures. Regarding computational effi-
ciency, SG-GAN trains 2.6 times faster (8.5 vs. 22.1 hours),
converges with 30% fewer samples, and its inference speed
is 8 times faster (15ms vs. 120ms) compared to Graphormer.
In connectivity rate, SG-GAN achieves 92% valid connected
graphs, whereas Graphormer only reaches 76%. Regarding
average Graph Edit Distance (GED), SG-GAN records 180 ±
20 edits whereas Graphormer records 450 ± 25 edits. This
means SG-GAN requires 2.5 times fewer insertions/deletions
to match the real graph compared to Graphormer, which
demonstrates superior structural fidelity. This performance
gap is primarily due to Graphormer’s global attention
over-smoothing, which fails to capture essential topological
rules.
Finally, we conduct a performance comparison assessment.
Numerical values are reported in the Table VI, with a 2.68%
reduction in energy consumption compared to [22].
TABLE VIII
KL D ISTANCE FOR DIFFERENT SG-GAN G ENERATED GRAPH FOR DIF-
FERENT ITERATION VS REAL GRAPH
TABLE IX
DIVERGENCE MEASURES BETWEEN GENERATED AND REAL GRAPHS
USING DIFFERENT METHODS (29 N ODES )
TABLE X
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON BETWEEN SG-GAN AND GRAPHORMER
A. Computational Overhead and Performance
The computational complexity of SG-GAN and Q-Learning
for EV routing and CS allocation is summarized in Table XI.
• I : Number of training iterations
• |Ve|: Number of nodes in the road network
• b′: Samples per node in SG-GAN’s generator step
• z′: Positive/negative samples per node in SG-GAN’s
discriminator step
• FG: Computational cost per generator forward pass
• FD: Computational cost per discriminator forward pass
• |Ed |: Number of edges in the road graph
• PG, PD: Number of parameters in the generator and
discriminator
• q, z: Temporary storage for generated samples and dis-
criminator inputs
• n: Number of EV agents
• |A|: Q-learning action space size
• s′: High-traffic nodes in Q-learning (with bipartite match-
ing cost O(s′3))
• C S: Number of CS
• |s|: State-space size for each agent’s Q-table
SG-GAN primarily focuses on graph-based learning,
requiring Breadth-First Search (BFS) tree construction and
iterative generator-discriminator training, while the pro-
posed Q-Learning models multi-agent decision-making with
high-dimensional state-action spaces. The training time for
SG-GAN depends on the number of iterations and the size
of the network. In each training iteration, every node in
the network undergoes a series of generator and discrimina-
tor operations. Although some operations (like constructing
complete BFS trees) could, in the worst case, incur high
computational costs, these are typically executed only on
demand or updated incrementally, and also SG-GAN Offline
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
DAS et al.: SG-GAN FOR EV ROAD NETWORKS AND Q-LEARNING IN ENERGY EFFICIENT ROUTING 9
TABLE XI
COMPUTATIONAL COMPLEXITY
Fig. 6. Changes in Computational time by scaling road networks and No.
of EVs (a) Training time for SG-GAN, (b) Training time for Q-Learning,
(c) Inference time for graph generation using SG-GAN.
pre-training keeps the overall computational overhead within
practical limits. For the present Q-Learning algorithm used
in EV routing and CS allocation, the computational load
increases with the number of EV agents, the size of their
action space, and the number of nodes in the road network.
Additionally, the algorithm handles extra tasks such as match-
ing high-traffic nodes, which introduces further overhead.
However, in parallel execution on our neural engine-based
CPU, the algorithm ensures that the time required per iteration
remains efficient, even as the problem size grows.
Fig.6(a) shows a 3D plot of SG-GAN training time with
the following points: A (29 nodes, 50 EVs, 8.5 hrs), B (50
nodes, 100 EVs, 13.6 hrs), C (100 nodes, 150 EVs, 19.9 hrs),
and D (150 nodes, 200 EVs, 22.9 hrs). The training time
increases nearly quadratically with |Ve| due to the dominant
O(|Ve|2) term, while the impact of increasing EVs is less
severe. Fig.6(b) presents the proposed Q-learning training time
with points: A (29 nodes, 50 EVs, 3.5 hrs), B (50 nodes,
100 EVs, 11.7 hrs), C (100 nodes, 150 EVs, 37.2 hrs), and D
(150 nodes, 200 EVs, 76.2 hrs). The effect of |Ve|, with larger
networks is its increases the global state space, scanning cost,
and connectivity management and even though the increase in
EVs adds overhead, larger networks can accommodate this.
Fig.6(c) depicts SG-GAN inference time for graph generation
with points: A (29, 50, 8.5 sec), B (50, 100, 15 sec), C (100,
150, 71.9 sec), and D (150, 200, 117.6 sec). So in the present
work, the scalability challenges for larger road networks can
be addressed.
VII. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORKS
In conclusion, the present work proposes an SG-GAN-based
road network development followed by a Q-learning-based
decision-making strategy, thus effectively optimizing energy
consumption in conjunction with enhancing EV routing and
CS allocation performance. Representing the road network as
a weighted graph, EVs navigate to fixed destinations while
avoiding congestion and utilizing CS assigned via a bipartite
graph approach. The solution achieves a 2.68% reduction in
energy consumption and 0.97% KL distance in the generated
road networks from the reference real one. Future work will
integrate the proposed method and the work reported in [37]
to leverage lightweight transformer-based collision detection
and load estimation schemes, leading to improved routing
reliability in scalable road networks under high-access loads.
REFERENCES
[1] A. M. Al-Ghaili, H. Kasim, H. Aris, and N. M. Al-Hada, “Can electric
vehicles be an alternative for traditional fossil-fuel cars with the help of
renewable energy sources towards energy sustainability achievement?”
Energy Informat., vol. 5, no. S4, p. 60, Dec. 2022.
[2] H. Wang et al., “GraphGAN: Graph representation learning with gener-
ative adversarial nets,” in Proc. 32nd AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell., vol. 32,
no. 1, 2018, pp. 2508–2515.
[3] T. Li et al., “CRTGAN: Controllable road network graphs generation
via transformer based GAN,” in Proc. Int. Joint Conf. Neural Netw.
(IJCNN), Jun. 2024, pp. 1–8.
[4] D. Li et al., “Toward resilient electric vehicle charging monitoring
systems: Curriculum guided multi-feature fusion transformer,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 21356–21366, Dec. 2024.
[5] T. Ding, Z. Zeng, J. Bai, B. Qin, Y . Yang, and M. Shahidehpour, “Opti-
mal electric vehicle charging strategy with Markov decision process and
reinforcement learning technique,”IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 56, no. 5,
pp. 5811–5823, Sep. 2020.
[6] R. Basso, B. Kulcsár, I. Sanchez-Diaz, and X. Qu, “Dynamic stochas-
tic electric vehicle routing with safe reinforcement learning,” Transp.
Res. E, Logistics Transp. Rev., vol. 157, Jan. 2022, Art. no. 102496.
[7] Y . Cao, H. Wang, D. Li, and G. Zhang, “Smart online charging algorithm
for electric vehicles via customized actor–critic learning,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 684–694, Jan. 2022.
[8] K.-B. Lee, M. A. Ahmed, D.-K. Kang, and Y .-C. Kim, “Deep rein-
forcement learning based optimal route and charging station selection,”
Energies, vol. 13, no. 23, p. 6255, Nov. 2020.
[9] T. Qian, C. Shao, X. Wang, and M. Shahidehpour, “Deep reinforcement
learning for EV charging navigation by coordinating smart grid and
intelligent transportation system,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 11,
no. 2, pp. 1714–1723, Mar. 2020.
[10] W. Zhang et al., “Intelligent electric vehicle charging recommenda-
tion based on multi-agent reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans. Intell.
Transp. Syst., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 1769–1780, Mar. 2023.
[11] M. Aljaidi, N. Aslam, X. Chen, O. Kaiwartya, Y . A. Al-Gumaei, and
M. Khalid, “A reinforcement learning-based assignment scheme for EVs
to charging stations,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 1,
pp. 362–372, Jan. 2022.
[12] L. von Wahl, N. Tempelmeier, A. Sao, and E. Demidova, “Rein-
forcement learning-based placement of charging stations in urban road
networks,” Energies, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 3992–4000, Aug. 2022.
[13] M. Alqahtani and M. Hu, “Dynamic energy scheduling and routing of
multiple electric vehicles using deep reinforcement learning,” Energy,
vol. 244, Apr. 2022, Art. no. 122626.
[14] K. Park and I. Moon, “Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning approach
for EV charging scheduling in a smart grid,” Appl. Energy, vol. 328,
Dec. 2022, Art. no. 120111.
[15] G. Macrina, G. Laporte, F. Guerriero, and L. Di Puglia Pugliese,
“An energy-efficient green-vehicle routing problem with mixed vehicle
fleet, partial battery recharging and time windows,” Eur. J. Oper. Res.,
vol. 276, no. 3, pp. 971–982, Aug. 2019.
[16] A. Schambers, M. Eavis-O’Quinn, V . Roberge, and M. Tarbouchi,
“Route planning for electric vehicle efficiency using the bellman-ford
algorithm on an embedded GPU,” J. Energy Eng., vol. 149, no. 2, 2023,
Art. no. 04023016.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
10 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
[17] D. Qiu, Y . Wang, M. Sun, and G. Strbac, “Multi-service provision for
electric vehicles in power-transportation networks towards a low-carbon
transition: A hierarchical and hybrid multi-agent reinforcement learning
approach,” Appl. Energy, vol. 313, May 2022, Art. no. 118790.
[18] Q. Xing, Y . Xu, and Z. Chen, “A bilevel graph reinforcement learning
method for electric vehicle fleet charging guidance,” IEEE Trans. Smart
Grid, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 3004–3011, Jul. 2022.
[19] M. Tang, B. Li, H. Liu, W. Zhuang, Z. Li, and J. Peng, “Energy-oriented
routing strategy of electric vehicle: An end-to-end reinforcement learn-
ing approach,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 24, no. 2,
pp. 746–759, Feb. 2023.
[20] H. Soni, V . Gupta, and R. Kumar, “Motion planning using reinforcement
learning for electric vehicle battery optimization,” Sustain. Cities Soc.,
vol. 78, Jan. 2022, Art. no. 103165.
[21] N. Mardeši ´c, T. Erdeli´c, T. Cari´c, and M. Ðurasevi´c, “Review of stochas-
tic dynamic vehicle routing in the evolving urban logistics environment,”
Mathematics, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 28, Dec. 2023.
[22] J. Wu, Z. Song, and C. Lv, “Deep reinforcement learning based energy-
efficient decision-making for autonomous electric vehicle in dynamic
traffic environments,” IEEE Trans. Transport. Electrific., vol. 10, no. 1,
pp. 875–887, Jan. 2024.
[23] S. Kullback and R. A. Leibler, “On information and sufficiency,” Ann.
Math. Statist., vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 79–86, 1951.
[24] A. Agrawal et al., “Mathematical modeling of driving forces of
an electric vehicle for sustainable operation,” IEEE Access, vol. 11,
pp. 95278–95294, 2023.
[25] D. Cross and C. M. Harris, Fundamentals of Queuing Theory. Hoboken,
NJ, USA: Wiley, 1998.
[26] R. S. Sutton and A. Barto, Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction,
vol. 16. Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 2005, pp. 285–286.
[27] H. W. Kuhn, “The Hungarian method for the assignment problem,” Nav.
Res. Logistics Quart., vol. 2, pp. 83–97, Mar. 1955.
[28] A. M. Bozorgi, M. Farasat, and A. Mahmoud, “A time and energy
efficient routing algorithm for electric vehicles based on historical
driving data,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Veh., vol. 2, no. 4, pp. 308–320,
Dec. 2017.
[29] D. L. Wang, A. Ding, G. L. Chen, and L. Zhang, “A combined genetic
algorithm and A* search algorithm for the electric vehicle routing
problem with time windows,” Adv. Prod. Eng. Manage., vol. 18, no. 4,
pp. 403–416, Dec. 2023.
[30] S. Kirono, M. I. Arifianto, R. E. Putra, A. Musoleh, and R. Setiadi,
“Graph-based modeling and Dijkstra algorithm for searching vehicle
routes on highways,” Int. J. Mech. Eng. Technol., vol. 9, pp. 1273–1280,
Jan. 2018.
[31] M. L. Menéndez, J. A. Pardo, L. Pardo, and M. C. Pardo, “The Jensen–
Shannon divergence,” J. Franklin Inst., vol. 334, no. 2, pp. 307–318,
1997.
[32] A. G. Garcia, L. A. R. Tria, and M. C. R. Talampas, “Development
of an energy-efficient routing algorithm for electric vehicles,” in Proc.
IEEE Transp. Electrific. Conf. Expo (ITEC), Jun. 2019, pp. 1–5.
[33] T. M. Aljohani and O. Mohammed, “A real-time energy consump-
tion minimization framework for electric vehicles routing optimization
based on SARSA reinforcement learning,” Vehicles, vol. 4, no. 4,
pp. 1176–1194, Oct. 2022.
[34] M. Menéndez, J. Pardo, L. Pardo, and M. Pardo, “The Jensen–Shannon
divergence,” J. Franklin Inst., vol. 334, no. 2, pp. 307–318, 1997.
[35] Z. Zhang, D. Chen, L. Bai, J. Wang, and E. R. Hancock, “Graph motif
entropy for understanding time-evolving networks,” IEEE Trans. Neural
Netw. Learn. Syst., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 1651–1665, Apr. 2023.
[36] C. Ying et al., “Do transformers really perform badly for graph repre-
sentation,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 34, Dec. 2021,
pp. 28877–28888.
[37] L. Zhen, M. Li, C. Chakraborty, J. Jiang, A. Polavarapu, and F.
Alqahtani, “A lightweight transformer-based collision detection and load
estimation scheme for massive random access in 6G satellite-ground
integrated vehicular networks,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., early
access, Jan. 20, 2025, doi: 10.1109/TITS.2025.3527073.
Suborno Kumar Das is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree in information technology with Indian
Institute of Engineering Science and Technology at
Shibpur. His research interests include generative
AI and reinforcement learning in energy-efficient
applications.
Santi Prasad Maity is currently working as a
Professor with the Department of Information Tech-
nology, Indian Institute of Engineering Science and
Technology at Shibpur. His research interests include
cognitive radio networks, digital image watermark-
ing and secret sharing, compressed sensing for image
reconstruction and disease diagnosis, CAD-based
diabetic retinopathy grading, reinforcement learning
for spectrum prediction, RIS-assisted D2D commu-
nication, and optimal charging station placement in
EV systems.
Chinmay Chakraborty (Senior Member, IEEE) is
currently working as an Associate Professor with the
School of Electronics Engineering, Kalinga Institute
of Industrial Technology (KIIT), India. His main
research interests include the internet of medical
things (IoMT), AI/ML, communication and com-
puting, telemedicine, m-health/e-health, and medical
imaging.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Netaji Subhas University of Technology New Delhi. Downloaded on October 02,2025 at 01:12:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
